.\" btget
.TH BTGET "6" "December 2005" "btget 1.05" "BitTorrent"
.SH NAME
btget \- Attach to a BitTorrent P2P cloud and retrieve or share a set of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btget
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fITORRENT\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
BitTorrent is a peer to peer protocol for transfer of large datasets.  Optimal
use of BitTorrent requires appropriate configuration of your firewall so that
other peers can reach your peer, but BitTorrent will also work at a diminished
level through a firewall and NAT proxy.  The TORRENT parameter should be a
special .torrent file that describes the dataset to be transferred, or with
the use of the \-u option can be a URL from which to obtain the .torrent file.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR
show a short help message
.TP
\fB\-f\fR[=\fIFILE\fR]
torrent datasets may list multiple files to be transferred.  
.IP
With the '\-f' 
option a single FILE may be transferred from the torrent.  Btget will request
the minimum amount of data from the other peers to complete the file
.TP
\fB\-q\fR[=\fITIMEOUT\fR]
once all peers are complete and TIMEOUT seconds have elapsed, btget will
exit
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
disable snubbing detection
.TP
\fB\-t\fR[=\fTIMEOUT\fR]
progress report interval
.IP
Changes the reporting interval to the value specified
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
treat the TORRENT parameter as a URL and retrieve the .torrent file from
that server
.TP
\fB\-e\fR[=\fIRATIO\fR]
exaggerate upload rates when talking to the tracker.  
.IP
Default RATIO is 1.0,
while large values will over\-state upload totals, and lower numbers will 
under\-state upload totals.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR[=\fIBADTRACKER\fR]
ignore multi\-tracker entries that list BADTRACKER.
.IP
Some torrents include multiple tracker entries.  With this flag you can
tell btget to ignore one or more of the trackers listed in a multi\-tracker
record.  BADTRACKER is a string which causes an entry to be ignored if it
appears anywhere within the tracker URL.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
seed the torrent without checking file integrity.  This will skip the file
verification step and assume that all blocks are ok
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
dump continuous updates about the state of the transfer and about each 
peer to which we are connected.
.PP
By default, btget will listen on the first available port in the range
6881\-6889.  Configuring your firewall so that your btget client is reachable
on those ports will ensure that you can connect to the largest possible
set of peers, which will in turn maximize your throughput.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP\fBLIBBT_MINPORT\fR
Start of port range for incoming connections
.TP\fBLIBBT_MAXPORT\fR
End of port range for incoming connections
.SH FILES
\fB./.libbtrc\fR holds the random identifier used to uniquely identify this 
peer with the tracker.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kevin Smathers and all of the authors listed in CREDITS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at <http://www.sf.net/projects/libbt>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 Kevin Smathers, et. al.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH KNOWN BUGS
The '\-f' option cannot be stacked.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
btlist(1), btcheck(1)
