spdylay 0.3.7
=============

Release Note
------------

This release updates INTERNAL_ERROR value of GOAWAY frame according to
SPDY/3 spec change. The spdycat and spdyd now can operate on
non-SSL/TLS SPDY connections. The shrpx now has --client and
--client-proxy options to make it accept plain HTTP connection and
forward to the backend in SPDY. There are many enhancements to these
programs in this release. Please read Changes below.

Changes
-------

* spdycat: Add -d option to POST data

* shrpx: Capitalize header field name in HTTP downstream connection

* shrpx: Add --no-via option

  If --no-via option is given, shrpx does not append to Via header
  field. If Via header field is received, it is left unaltered.

* spdycat: Log error when no supported SPDY version was negotiated

* shrpx: Log status code, method, path and HTTP version in accesslog

* shrpx: Color HTTP headers in console log

* shrpx: Color severity level in terminal

  Color severity level if stderr refers to a terminal.

* shrpx: Read private key's passwd from a file

  This avoids the need to provide the password for your
  private key interactively.

  It can be used via --private-key-passwd-file or
  private-key-passwd-file in the given config file. The first line in
  the file (without \n) will be treated as the passwd. There isn't any
  validation and all lines after the first one (if any) are ignored.

  The security model behind this is a bit simplistic so I am open to
  better ideas. Basically your password file should be root:root (700)
  and you *should* drop root and run as an unprivileged user.

  If the file exists and a line can be read then a callback will be
  set for the SSL ctxt and it'll feed the passwd when the private key
  is read (if password is needed).

  If the file exists with the wrong permisions it'll be logged and
  ignored.

* spdycat, spdyd: Support SPDY without SSL/TLS

  Use --no-tls option to disable SSL/TLS and specify SPDY protocol
  version using -2 or -3.

* shrpx: Add --backend-ipv4 and --backend-ipv6 options.

* shrpx: Add -v, --version option

* shrpx: Verify backend server's certificate in client mode

  The -k, --insecure option is added to skip this verification.  The
  system wide trusted CA certificates will be loaded at startup. The
  --cacert option is added to specify the trusted CA certificate file.

* shrpx: Check the length of output buffer in write callback

  Possibly because of deferred callback, we may get this callback when
  the output buffer is not empty.

* shrpx: Add --client-proxy and --client option

  With --client, instead of accepting SPDY/HTTPS connection, shrpx
  accepts plain HTTP connection and communicate with backend server in
  SPDY (SSL/TLS). To use shrpx as a forward proxy, use -p option
  instead.

  The --client-proxy option is mostly the same with with --client
  option, but it also requires the request path from frontend must be
  an absolute URI, suitable for use as a forward proxy.

* shrpx: Don't send response-body for 304 response

* Update GOAWAY INTERNAL_ERROR value according to SPDY/3 spec change

* shrpx: Fix password handling for certs keys

  We should only call daemon() after ListenHandler is instantiated,
  where SSL_CTX_use_PrivateKey_file is called, otherwise we have no
  stdin/stdout to get the password for keyfile.

* spdycat: Handle timeout in connect and SSL/TLS handshake



spdylay 0.3.6
=============

Release Note
------------

This release fixes bugs in configure command-line options and spdycat.
The client side header block compression was disabled. The
on_ctrl_not_send_callback now gets SPDYLAY_ERR_FRAME_TOO_LARGE as
error code when packed frame is too large to fit in SPDY frame size
limit. Shrpx SPDY proxy mode now announces SPDY/3 as default protocol.

Changes
-------

* shrpx: Made SPDY/3 default protocol in SPDY proxy mode.  The reason
  why we choose SPDY/2 as default for SPDY prxy was due to Chrome's
  window update bug. Now its fix is available in Chrome stable, we
  make SPDY/3 as default.

* spdycat: Just return in check_response_header if stream_user_data is
  NULL.

* spdycat: Add missing break after handling -H option

* configure: Fix bug that $withval is used where $enableval should be
  used

* shrpx: Use request HTTP version in HTTPS upstream response

* shrpx: Log when SPDY stream is closed

* Check provisioned frame length when packing a frame.  If resultant
  length of a frame exceeds the maximum value (which is 2**24 - 1 for
  SPDY/2 and 3), SPDYLAY_ERR_FRAME_TOO_LARGE is used to indicate this
  error. This error will be notified by on_ctrl_not_send_callback.

* Disable client side header block compression.



spdylay 0.3.5
=============

Release Note
------------

This release fixes the bug that shrpx tries to read response body when
HTTP status code is 304 and nonzero Content-Length is returned.  The
SPDY client and server programs, spdycat, spdyd and shrpx, were moved
to src directory. The --enable-src configure option was added to
enable/disable to build them. In Python API, Session.resume_data() now
returns boolean value to indicate error instead of raising
InvalidArgumentError.

This release was made because the previous release, 0.3.4, did not
update library version. Other than updated library version number,
anything has not been changed since 0.3.4.

Changes
-------

* shrpx: Check request_connection_close_ when deciding closing
  connection.  When deciding whether to close the client connection,
  check request_connection_close_ of Downstream in addition of
  response_connection_close_. Also we only add "Connection:
  Keep-Alive" header to the HTTP/1.0 or HTTP/0.9 clients.

* python: Don't raise exception from Session.resume_data().  In
  practice, Session.resume_data() will be used without checking there
  is deferred data or not. Actually, there is no API to check this.
  So it is better not to raise exception. Instead return False to
  notify error. If the method succeeds, it returns True.

* Add --enable-src configure option.  When --enable-src is given, the
  programs in src directory will be built. If --disable-src is given,
  those programs will not be built. If none of them are given,
  --enable-src is assumed.

* Move spdycat, spdyd and shrpx from examples to src.  To distinguish
  the to-be-installed programs and non-installable example source
  code, the former programs, spdycat, spdydyd and shrpx, were moved to
  src directory. spdynative was removed from Makefile because it does
  not appeal to any users much.

* shrpx: Ignore response body if HTTP status code is 1xx, 204 or 304.



spdylay 0.3.4
=============

Release Note
------------

This release fixes the bug that shrpx tries to read response body when
HTTP status code is 304 and nonzero Content-Length is returned.  The
SPDY client and server programs, spdycat, spdyd and shrpx, were moved
to src directory. The --enable-src configure option was added to
enable/disable to build them. In Python API, Session.resume_data() now
returns boolean value to indicate error instead of raising
InvalidArgumentError.

Changes
-------

* shrpx: Check request_connection_close_ when deciding closing
  connection.  When deciding whether to close the client connection,
  check request_connection_close_ of Downstream in addition of
  response_connection_close_. Also we only add "Connection:
  Keep-Alive" header to the HTTP/1.0 or HTTP/0.9 clients.

* python: Don't raise exception from Session.resume_data().  In
  practice, Session.resume_data() will be used without checking there
  is deferred data or not. Actually, there is no API to check this.
  So it is better not to raise exception. Instead return False to
  notify error. If the method succeeds, it returns True.

* Add --enable-src configure option.  When --enable-src is given, the
  programs in src directory will be built. If --disable-src is given,
  those programs will not be built. If none of them are given,
  --enable-src is assumed.

* Move spdycat, spdyd and shrpx from examples to src.  To distinguish
  the to-be-installed programs and non-installable example source
  code, the former programs, spdycat, spdydyd and shrpx, were moved to
  src directory. spdynative was removed from Makefile because it does
  not appeal to any users much.

* shrpx: Ignore response body if HTTP status code is 1xx, 204 or 304.



spdylay 0.3.3
=============

Release Note
------------

This release fixes the segmentation fault error if the name/value
pairs which include empty string name are passed as nv argument to
spdylay_submit_* functions. Spdycat gets new option to specify
arbitrary headers from command line. Shrpx gets new option to specify
allowed cipher list. Python wrapper python-spdylay was added.

Changes
-------

* Add spdylay_npn_get_proto_list() public API function.
  spdylay_npn_get_proto_list() returns a pointer to the supported SPDY
  version list. The element of the list is spdylay_npn_proto
  struct. It contains all SPDY version information this library
  supports. The application can use this information to configure NPN
  protocol offerings/selection.

* Add --enable-example configure option. If --disable-example is used,
  example programs will not be compiled.

* Fix error with w64-mingw32 cross compiler.

* Remove unused zlib.h header file from spdylay.h

* Fix segmentation fault error if the name/value pairs which include
  empty string name are passed as nv argument to spdylay_submit_*
  functions.

* spdycat: Adding arbitrary headers form the command line. Patch from
  Stephen Ludin.

* Fix intptr_t check in configure.ac. Patch from Stephen Ludin.

* shrpx: add --ciphers option to specify allowed cipher list

* python: Add Python wrapper for spdylay. It is released separately as
  python-spdylay package from PyPI.



spdylay 0.3.2
=============

Release Note
------------

This release adds many features and options to shrpx, HTTPS/SPDY
reverse proxy. Secure SPDY proxy mode was added to shrpx. Spdycat now
supports SNI, thanks to the patch contributed by Piotr Sikora.

Changes
-------

* spdycat: Add support for Server Name Indication (SNI). Patch from
  Piotr Sikora.

* spdycat: Use TLSv1_client_method

* shrpx: Add many new command-line options. It also now supports
  configuration file. Use http-parser instead of htparse. Add SPDY
  proxy mode.

* lib: Take into account shut_flags when accepting DATA frame.



spdylay 0.3.1
=============

Release Note
------------

This release fixes the bug that on_ctrl_recv_callback is not called
when RST_STREAM is received.  It also fixes the bug that
on_data_recv_callback and on_data_chunk_recv_callback is called after
the stream was closed. A multi-threaded reverse proxy for SPDY/HTTPS
is added as an example program.

Changes
-------

* Added --enable-maintainer-mode configure option If it is enabled,
  turn on extra compiler warnings.

* Don't call on_data_recv_callback and on_data_chunk_recv_callback if
  stream was closed or being closed.

* Added example program Shrpx: a multi-threaded reverse proxy for
  SPDY/HTTPS.  It accepts SPDY/HTTPS connections and converts them to
  normal HTTP and forwards to the downstream servers.

* Fixed bug on_ctrl_recv_callback not called for RST_STREAM

* Return nonzero exit status if test fails. Fixed failmalloc tests.



spdylay 0.3.0
=============

Release Note
------------

This release fixes buffer overrun when a lot of streams are created.
SPDYLAY_OPT_MAX_RECV_CTRL_FRAME_BUFFER option was added to control the
maximum payload size of the incoming control frames.

Changes
-------

* Bump up LT version to 2.0.1.

* Included <functional> from spdy.h

* Made spdylay_strerror(0) return "Success"

* Added SPDYLAY_OPT_MAX_RECV_CTRL_FRAME_BUFFER option.  This option
  sets maximum receive buffer size for incoming control frame.
  Basically the library checks the length field of the incoming
  control frame. For frames with name/value header block, the library
  also checks the length of inflated block is also under the
  limit. This is done while incrementally inflating block. If the
  length of frames with name/value header block exceeds the limit, the
  library will issue RST_STREAM with FRAME_TOO_LARGE. For other
  frames, it will issue GOAWAY.

* Incremental name/value block decompression

* Fixed buffer overrun in spdylay_pq_push
